#Overview
CRC-AIM models the natural history of colorectal cancer (CRC) using an adenoma-carcinoma sequence. The natural history of CRC is comprised of five components: (1) adenoma generation; (2) adenoma growth; (3) transition from adenoma to preclinical cancer; (4) transition from preclinical cancer to clinically detectable cancer (i.e., sojourn time); and (5) survival(Supplemental Figure 1). Individuals may develop one or more adenomas, which may transition into a preclinical cancer as it grows. A preclinical cancer may ultimately transition into a clinically detectable cancer, and then lead to CRC-specific mortality. CRC-AIM does not model CRCs that occur through sessile serrated pathway (SSP), which is a major limitation of our model. Approximately 14% - 30% 2-4 of CRCs are estimated to arise from sessile serrated lesions and polyps, which develop mainly via the CpG island methylation pathway.5, 6 In addition, the CRC screening modalities vary substantially in the detection of SSPs, since serrated polyps are less likely to bleed compared to adenoma. Also, our model does not represent the CRC-related events experienced by individuals who are at high risk such as patients with inflammatory bowel disease (e.g., Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis) and those with a personal or family history of CRC. This is because such patients are likely to have a different natural history of CRC and require different screening/surveillance strategies than average-risk individuals.
The ColoRectal Cancer Simulated Population Incidence and Natural history (CRC-SPIN) model (one of three CISNET CRC models) inspired the development of CRC-AIM, and the models share features (as obtained or derived from publicly available sources).
However, in addition to some structural differences, almost all the parameter values differ between CRC-AIM and CRC-SPIN as explained in detail in Supplemental Section B. 
In the remainder of this section, we provide details of each five subcomponents of CRC-AIM.